Kubernetes YAML Deep Dive 

I used to copy Kubernetes YAML from Stack Overflow without understanding half of it.
Then one indentation error broke my entire deployment.

Here's what I wish I understood about Kubernetes YAML from Day 1 👇

YAML is whitespace sensitive — this breaks more deployments than any bug:
❌ Wrong (mixing tabs and spaces, inconsistent indentation):

 spec:
 containers:
 - name: app
 image: myapp:1.0
✅ Right (consistent 2-space indentation):
 spec:
 containers:
name: app
 image: myapp:1.0

One wrong space and kubectl apply fails with a confusing error.

Every Kubernetes YAML has 4 required fields:

apiVersion: apps/v1 ← which API version to use
kind: Deployment ← what type of resource
metadata: ← name, labels, namespace
name: myapp
spec: ← the actual configuration
replicas: 3

Miss any of these four and Kubernetes rejects your file immediately.

Labels vs Selectors — the part that confuses everyone:

labels:
 app: myapp
This is just a tag on your resource.
selector:
 matchLabels:
 app: myapp

This is how one resource finds another resource.

Your Service uses a selector to find Pods with matching labels.
Your Deployment uses a selector to manage Pods with matching labels.

If labels and selectors don't match exactly — nothing connects. No error message. Just silent failure.

This is the single most common Kubernetes debugging issue for beginners.

Multi-document YAML — combining resources in one file:

apiVersion: apps/v1
 kind: Deployment
 metadata:
 name: myapp
 spec:
 replicas: 3

apiVersion: v1
 kind: Service
 metadata:
 name: myapp-service
 spec:
 selector:
 app: myapp

The three dashes --- separate multiple resources in a single file. Apply both with one command.

Essential debugging commands when YAML fails:

kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml --dry-run=client → test without applying
kubectl explain deployment.spec → see all valid fields
yamllint deployment.yaml → check syntax before applying

My personal rule now:
Always run --dry-run=client before applying anything to a real cluster.
It catches syntax errors before they become production incidents.
YAML looks simple. It's also where most Kubernetes mistakes happen.
