⚡ CPU Throttling Issues

Your application is running.

Pods are healthy.

No errors are reported.

Yet users are experiencing slow response times and performance degradation.

❌ High Latency

❌ Slow API Responses

❌ Performance Bottlenecks

One often-overlooked culprit is CPU Throttling.

Recently, I worked on an application that showed inconsistent performance despite having sufficient cluster resources. After investigating, I discovered that the containers were being CPU throttled.

🔍 My troubleshooting approach:

✅ Checked CPU utilization metrics

✅ Reviewed CPU requests and limits

✅ Analyzed container resource consumption

✅ Examined Prometheus/Grafana dashboards

✅ Verified throttling metrics

✅ Compared application load against allocated CPU

✅ Reviewed pod resource configurations

✅ Analyzed application performance trends

🎯 Root Cause:

The CPU limit configured for the container was too low for the workload.

Whenever the application experienced traffic spikes, Kubernetes restricted CPU usage to the defined limit, resulting in CPU throttling.

As a result, the application responded slowly even though it remained healthy.

After adjusting CPU limits and optimizing resource allocation, performance improved significantly.

💡 Key Takeaway:

When troubleshooting performance issues, don't focus only on CPU utilization.

Always verify:

• CPU requests and limits

• CPU throttling metrics

• Application response times

• Resource utilization trends

• Traffic patterns

• Pod resource allocation

• Monitoring dashboards

Useful commands:

kubectl top pod

kubectl describe pod <pod-name>

kubectl get pod <pod-name> -o yaml

Remember:

📌 High CPU usage is not always the problem.

📌 CPU throttling can occur even when the application appears healthy.

📌 Proper resource sizing is critical for application performance.

Performance issues are often hidden infrastructure problems waiting to be discovered.

Every troubleshooting session helps us build more efficient and resilient Kubernetes workloads.
