Kubernetes Security

Today, I dived into the world of Kubernetes Security, and it's a critical topic that demands serious attention. Here are some key areas we should focus on for a secure cluster setup

Security at Workload level
1. Role Based Access Control(RBAC) - It ensure that cluster users and workloads have only the access to resources required to execute their roles. Least privilege principle is used to assign roles to users and service accounts.
2. Identity Providers (Okta, OIDC) -Integrate Kube-ApiServer with Identity providers(IDP) like Okta or OpenID Connect for strong, centralized authentication.
3. Secrity for Container -Containers Images should be pulled or build from trusted sources. and Implementing image scanning tools like Trivy in CI/CD pipeline to prevent vulnerabilities.

Security at Network Level
1. Network Policies -It define rules for controlling the flow of traffic between pod groups, enforcing a secure network.
2. Service Mesh – Use Istio/Linkerd service mesh which provides mutual TLS (mTLS) between services for encrypted and authenticated communication.

Security at Control-plane and Worker node level
1. Master & Worker Node Security - By implemneting tool like kube-bench, which checks whether a Kubernetes cluster meets the CIS benchmarks.
2. Worker Node Hardening – Nodes should be secured and hardened by regularly apply OS patches, disable unused services to prevent unauthorized access.
3. Pod Security Admission (PSA) -By ensuring Pod Security admission controller is running which defines labels like enforce, audit and warn which helps control plane to take action if potential violation is detected.

Security at Infrastructure level
1. Immutable Infra -By creating Immutable Infrastructure with IAC terrraform which means replacing/rebuild containers instead of patching/updating them again to reduce drifts and hidden risks.
2. Version control-Infra -By maintaining clear history of changes, version control can significantly reduce risk of failures and results in faster deployments.

Security by observability
1. Monitoring & Alerts -By Implementing Prometheus and Grafana which helps to set up alerts which indicates malicious activity, early detection of potential security breaches.
2. Audit Logging -Continuous Audit of logs events that have occurred within the cluster, helping in analysis tracing and monitoring.

Securing Kubernetes is critical in Production Systems. If you're building with Kubernetes, make sure you're building it securely. 
